---
layout:basictoc
css:article community headerbar
title:Frequently Answered Questions (FAQ)
---

<div id="content">

<div class="fixed-width" markdown="1">

Frequently Answered Questions
=============================

<div class="authors">
  <a class="author" href="#three20additions">Permalink</a>
  <a class="author" href="https://groups.google.com/d/msg/three20/rbMr-NywpPU/ISKCzxsfwS8J">Source Question</a>
</div>

Request for member 'width' not a structure or union {#three20additions}
---------------------------------------------------

Example code that might cause this error:

    _pageControl = [[TTPageControl alloc] initWithFrame:CGRectMake(0, 0, self.view.width, 20)];

The culprit in this code is `self.view.width`. The `.width` accessor is not a standard UIView
method. In fact, it's a utility method provided by Three20 in the form of an "addition" to the
UIView object. Three20 additions may only be used if you
`#import <Three20/Three20+Additions.h>` into your project.

### Variations

    Request for member 'height' not a structure or union
    Request for member 'left' not a structure or union

<div class="authors">
  <a class="author" href="#three20setup">Permalink</a>
  <a class="author" href="http://groups.google.com/group/three20/browse_thread/thread/0243e2dcd848c129">Source Question</a>
</div>

Added Three20 and set up URL mapping but getting a black screen {#blackscreen}
--------------------------------------------------------

This will happen when you've set up a new project, removed the default nib, and
only use Three20 in your app delegate to present the initial view controllers.

The problem is likely that you haven't declared to your app the name of your
app delegate. To resolve this problem, check out `main.m` in your project.
It's usually in the "Other Sources" folder. Find the following line:

    int retVal = UIApplicationMain(argc, argv, nil, nil);

You will need to change the last parameter to a string containing the name of
your app delegate. For example, if your app delegate is declared as "@interface
AppDelegate", you should write:

    int retVal = UIApplicationMain(argc, argv, nil, @"AppDelegate");

</div> <!-- .fixed-width -->

</div> <!-- #content -->
