Source code style guidelines {#styleguidelines}
============================

Three20 uses a consistent style guideline throughout the entire code base. The
various guidelines are presented below, separated into three sections:
[general guidelines](#general), [guidelines for .h files](#headerguidelines), and
[guidelines for .m files](#sourceguidelines).
Any code that does not follow these guidelines will not be merged into the mainline of Three20.

General Guidelines {#general}
------------------
<div class="permalink"><a href="#general">Permalink</a></div>

Presented below are a site of guidelines that apply to every source file in Three20. This includes
header (.h) and source (.m) files.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#preamble">Permalink</a></div>
### The Preamble {#preamble}

    //
    // Copyright 2009-2011 Facebook
    //
    // Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    // you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    // You may obtain a copy of the License at
    //
    //    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    //
    // Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    // distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    // WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    // See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    // limitations under the License.
    //

This is required at the top of each source file.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> In the event that a given source file is copied into another project,
!> this ensures to a reasonable extent that the license is preserved and that original ownership
!> is noted.
!> 
!> Open for debate: The size of the preamble could potentially be minimized to a single line.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#imports">Permalink</a></div>
### Imports {#imports}

    // Three20UINavigator
    #import "Three20UINavigator/TTURLNavigatorPattern.h"
    #import "Three20UINavigator/TTURLGeneratorPattern.h"

    // Core
    #import "Three20Core/TTGlobalCore.h"
    #import "Three20Core/TTCorePreprocessorMacros.h"

Group all imports into their logical Three20 section and prefix a given section with a comment
stating which section you intend it to be. Learn more about Three20 modules by reading the article
{{2010-10-21-Understanding-Modules}}.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> By grouping imports into logical groups, it's easier to read and quickly understand
!> what dependencies this source has with respect to the given sections of Three20.


<div class="permalink"><a href="#importorder">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="importorder"></div>
The order of imports should always be the following:

Three20 Modules, followed by Apple Frameworks.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> By placing the Apple Frameworks at the bottom, we decrease the chances of import order
!> mattering. Consider this example:
!> 
!>     #import <Foundation/Foundation.h>
!>     
!>     // UINavigator
!>     #import "Three20UINavigator/TTURLNavigatorPattern.h"
!> 
!> Let's say that `Three20UINavigator/TTURLNavigatorPattern.h` depended on Foundation.h for
!> NSObject, but it didn't actually include Foundation.h within itself. If this is the
!> only place that `TTURLNavigatorPattern` is imported, the project will build successfully
!> right now. But if we then try to import ***only***
!> `Three20UINavigator/TTURLNavigatorPattern.h` somewhere else, without placing Foundation.h
!> above it, we'll get a build error.

Within a group, TTGlobal* headers should come first (e.g. `Three20Core/TTGlobalCore.h`).

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> This rationale is contrary to the above goal of reducing import order errors. The goal of
!> placing TTGlobal* imports at the top of a logical group is to make it easy to absorb the set of
!> imports used in any given group.
!> 
!> This guideline is subject to debate.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#minimalimports">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="minimalimports"></div>
Make an effort to include the minimal number of header files in each source file.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> This will reduce incremental build times and make it clear as to which objects the
!> given class legitimately depends on.

### General style guidelines

<div class="permalink"><a href="#maxlinelength">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="maxlinelength"></div>
The maximum line length is 100 characters.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> Due to the verboseness of Objective-C, the difference between 100 characters and 80 is quite
!> noticeable. We're also not using strict 80 character terminals for development anymore. 100 was
!> chosen due to the ability of laying out two source files side-by-side on the screen, while still
!> seeing all code.


<div class="permalink"><a href="#spaces">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="spaces"></div>
Three20 uses spaces, not tabs.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> It is impossible to guarantee that everyone is using the same IDE with the same tab spacing.
!> Also, Three20 frequently uses alignment to make code more readable. As such, we use spaces
!> instead of tabs to guarantee that the code is always presented consistently.


<div class="permalink"><a href="#indentation">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="indentation"></div>
Three20 uses two spaces for indentation.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> This point is purely religious. Two spaces was chosen due to historical use, as well as the
!> minimal amount of space it uses (compared to four spaces).




Guidelines for .h files {#headerguidelines}
-----------------------

<div class="permalink"><a href="#headerimports">Permalink</a></div>
### Header Imports {#headerimports}

    #import <Foundation/Foundation.h>
    #import <UIKit/UIKit.h>

Objects that don't inherit from any other TT* object should import the required
frameworks for the object in question. For example, ^TTURLRequestQueue^ needs Foundation.h in
order to inherit from NSObject and it needs UIKit.h for a CGFloat instance variable.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> Three20 does, in fact, import the above frameworks in the precompiled header. However, the goal
!> of Three20 is to be independent of precompiled headers if a developer ever needed to build
!> a subset of Three20 without a precompiled header. For this reason, we must import frameworks
!> as necessary.
!> 
!> In order to verify that you are doing this correctly, use the "Internal" build, which is a
!> special internal build that does not use precompiled headers. A nice side effect of this is
!> that if Internal builds, it's guaranteed to build in Debug and Release (the inverse
!> is not strictly true).
!> 
!> Side note: Debug and Release Three20 builds both use a precompiled header to speed up
!> compilation times of the library.

    // Network
    #import "Three20Network/TTURLResponse.h"

For objects that inherit from other TT* objects, you don't need to import the frameworks.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> The inherited class file is sufficient because it will generally import the required frameworks.
!> 
!> !* Exception
!> Sometimes the inherited class file won't import all of the necessary frameworks. If this happens,
!> import the frameworks, still keeping in mind the [import order](#imports).

<div class="permalink"><a href="#advancedecls">Permalink</a></div>
### Required classes/prototypes {#advancedecls}

    @class TTURLRequest;

Unless you're inheriting from a class or implementing a protocol, it is adequate
to provide an advance declaration of the class instead of importing the header file for
the class.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> This will reduce header file dependencies and therefor improve incremental build times.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#classdefs">Permalink</a></div>
### Class definition {#classdefs}

    @interface TTModelViewController : TTViewController <TTModelDelegate> {

Three20 classes are always prefixed with TT. This is an example of an object that inherits from
another Three20 class and implements a Three20 protocol.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> Class prefixing is a common practice for avoiding namespace conflicts.

    @interface CustomModelViewController : TTViewController <
      TTModelDelegate,
      TTURLRequestDelegate
    > {

If the object implements multiple protocols, split the protocol list into
separate lines with the above format, one protocol on each line.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> This improves the readability of diffs if/when you change the protocols that this class imports.
!> This also makes it easier to quickly read the set of implemented protocols.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#classivars">Permalink</a></div>
### Class ivars {#classivars}

    @private
      id              _userInfo;
      NSMutableArray* _urls;

      id<TTActionSheetControllerDelegate> _delegate;

Instance variables (ivars) are explicitly declared private.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> Ivars should never be accessed directly from an outside class; this is what
!> [properties](#properties) are for.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#ivarprefix">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="ivarprefix"></div>
Ivar names are prefixed with an underscore (`_`).

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> This makes it easy to differentiate between a property accessor (`self.userInfo`)
!> and accessing a private ivar (`_userInfo`).
!> 
!> `_` is a prefix instead of a suffix because it immediately narrows down autocompletion
!> to private ivars when you type `_`. This is counter to Apple's recommendation of using `_` as a
!> suffix for private ivars.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#ivarcasing">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="ivarcasing"></div>
Ivar names always begin with a lower-case letter and are camelCased.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> This then transfers to property names, making it easy to begin typing a property name with
!> only one keypress (no shift key involved).
!> 
!> With respect to acronyms, you should still use use a lowercase first letter. For example:
!> `_urlPath`, instead of `_URLPath`.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#ivargrouping">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="ivargrouping"></div>
Ivars must be grouped in some logical grouping.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> This makes it easier to understand the contents of the class. Space the ivar names such
!> that they align vertically in each logical group.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#ivardelegates">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="ivardelegates"></div>
Delegates and other protocol objects must be placed at the bottom of the ivar definitions.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> Delegates are generally much longer declarations and would otherwise throw off the alignment of
!> the other ivars.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#properties">Permalink</a></div>
### Properties {#properties}

    /**
     * The maximum size of a download that is allowed.
     *
     * If a response reports a content length greater than the max, the download
     * will be cancelled. This is helpful for preventing excessive memory usage.
     * Setting this to zero will allow all downloads regardless of size.
     *
     * @default 150000 bytes
     */
    @property (nonatomic) NSUInteger maxContentLength;

Due to our use of Doxygen to generate the API documentation, we use javadoc-style documentation
syntax throughout the source. The first sentence of a comment will be the "summary" line shown in
the API docs, and any subsequent lines will be in the "more details" section.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#ivarnonatomic">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="ivarnonatomic"></div>
Unless you're certain of what you're doing, use `nonatomic` when declaring properties.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> The alternative is atomic, which has potential performance implications that may be undesirable.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#ivaraccess">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="ivaraccess"></div>
Be specific about the access level of the property. For example, properties that shouldn't
be modifiable outside of the class should be `readonly`.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> Don't depend on people's memory to recall what the default property access levels are.
!> Unless you're 100% confident that 100% of people reading the code will remember the implicit
!> access level, make it explicit.

<div class="permalink"><a href="#ivarmemory">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="ivarmemory"></div>
Understand the difference between the `retain`, `copy`, and `assign` keywords. A general
rule of thumb is to use `copy` for NSStrings, `retain` for objects whose lifetime you want
to guarantee, and `assign` for delegates.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> This doesn't need much explaining. You either do this right, or you don't and suffer the
!> memory hazards as a result.




Guidelines for .m files {#sourceguidelines}
-----------------------

    ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

<div class="permalink"><a href="#commentlines">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="commentlines"></div>

Before every method declaration there should be a comment line that is exactly 99 characters wide.

Before every class declaration there should be three of the above comment lines.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> These comment lines help bring focus to the start of a method better than simple whitespace.
!> They also act as a bounds checker when writing long lines of code.

### Initialization and deallocation

<div class="permalink"><a href="#initdealloc">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="initdealloc"></div>

init and dealloc methods should always be the first methods in the class implementation.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> init and dealloc are two most common methods used in classes, and therefor should be the
!> easiest to find.

    - (id)init {
      self = [self initWithTarget:nil];
      if (self) {
      }

      return self;
    }

<div class="permalink"><a href="#designatedinitializer">Permalink</a></div>
<div id="designatedinitializer"></div>

Every class should have a designated initializer which calls the `super` class's designated
initializer. All other init methods for the class should call the local class's designated
initializer using `self`.

!> !* Rationale
!>
!> See the Apple documentation on [designated initializers](http://developer.apple.com/mac/library/documentation/cocoa/conceptual/ObjectiveC/Articles/ocAllocInit.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP30001163-CH22-SW8)
!> for more details.
!> Initializers should set self outside the if condition per the Apple Documentation.

    - (id)init {
      self = [self initWithTarget:nil];
      if (self) {
      }

      return self;
    }
