
h1. Adding Three20 To Your Project

h3. Adapted from Three20.info by Michael Grinich

h2. 1. Get the source

Clone the three20 git repository: @git clone git://github.com/facebook/three20.git@. Make sure you store the repository in a permanent place because Xcode will need to reference the files every time you compile your project.

h2. Add the library to your project

Locate the @Three20.xcodeproj@ file under @three20/src/Three20/@. Drag @Three20.xcodeproj@ and drop it onto the root of your Xcode project's "Groups and Files" sidebar. A dialog will appear -- make sure "Copy items" is unchecked and "Reference Type" is "Relative to Project" before clicking "Add".


Open the Three20 Xcode Project that you just added to your app and expand the "Dependencies" group. Select all of the projects listed there and drag them to your app as well. You should now have the following list of Three20 projects added to your app:

* Three20Core
* Three20Network
* Three20Style
* Three20UICommon
* Three20UINavigator
* Three20UI
* Three20
	
Now you need to link the Three20 static libraries to your project. Select all of the project items that you just added to the sidebar. Under the "Details" table, you will see a number of items, such as @libThree20.a@ and @libThree20Core.a@. Check the checkbox on the far right for each of the lib files (not the UnitTests). This will link each part of the Three20 framework to your app.

Now you need to add Three20 as a dependency of your project, so Xcode compiles it whenever you compile your project. Expand the "Targets" section of the sidebar and double-click your application's target. Under the "General" tab you will see a "Direct Dependencies" section. Click the "+" button, select "Three20" and each of the other libs, and click "Add Target". You do not need to add the UnitTests target for each lib.

Now you need to add the bundle of images and strings to your app. Locate "Three20.bundle" under @three20/src@ and drag and drop it into your project. A dialog will appear -- make sure "Create Folder References" is selected, "Copy items" is unchecked, and "Reference Type" is "Relative to Project" before clicking "Add".

Now you need to add the Core Animation[1] framework to your project. Right click on the "Frameworks" group in your project (or equivalent) and select Add > Existing Frameworks. Then locate QuartzCore.framework and add it to the project.

Finally, we need to tell your project where to find the Three20 headers. Open your "Project Settings" and go to the "Build" tab. Look for "Header Search Paths" and double-click it. Add the relative path from your project's directory to the @three20/Build/Products/three20@ directory.

While you are in Project Settings, go to "Other Linker Flags" under the "Linker" section, and add @-ObjC@ and @-all_load@ to the list of flags.

You're now ready to go! Just @#import "Three20/Three20.h"@ anywhere you want to use Three20 classes in your project.


fn1. http://developer.apple.com/graphicsimaging/coreanimation/ framework