November 2010 Bug-Crushing Week
===============================

As of [v1.0a1](/roadmap/v1.0a1), Three20 has 199 issues and countless features found in over
400 forks on GitHub.

We're going to tackle this growing set of issues. This week, from November 1st to November 7th,
2010, we're going on a bug-crushing spree. The entire Three20 community is invited to help
make Three20 a better library for iOS development.

How It's Organized
------------------

I've dumped all of the GitHub issues into a
Google Spreadsheet, titled "[Three20 v1.0a1 Task List](https://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=0Ap-fk9EFS1C6dEgzZUo1SnNvdTBkeDRvZnYxa1ZNMWc&hl=en)".
The spreadsheet contains two sheets.

--
[View the Task List](https://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=0Ap-fk9EFS1C6dEgzZUo1SnNvdTBkeDRvZnYxa1ZNMWc&hl=en)
--

The first is a flat list of all issues and pull requests as of
Sunday, October 31st. Next to each issue are cells for keeping track of our progress: a
completion cell, an owner cell, and a reviewed by cell. We'll be using this list to
organize who is responsible for merging, testing, and pushing each fix.

--
<iframe width='800' height='300' frameborder='0' src='https://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=0Ap-fk9EFS1C6dEgzZUo1SnNvdTBkeDRvZnYxa1ZNMWc&hl=en&single=true&gid=0&output=html&widget=true'></iframe>
--

The second is a volunteer list. We'll use this to gather the GitHub usernames of everyone who is
actively helping out in bug week and their availability.

--
<iframe width='800' height='200' frameborder='0' src='https://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=0Ap-fk9EFS1C6dEgzZUo1SnNvdTBkeDRvZnYxa1ZNMWc&hl=en&single=true&gid=1&output=html&widget=true'></iframe>
--

How to Help Out
---------------

We'll be using the Three20 repository found at [github.com/Three20/Three20](http://github.com/Three20/Three20)
to gather changes. Commit access will be given on this repository to anyone
who helps merge code. If you don't have commit access and would like to help out,
[send a message to jverkoey](https://github.com/inbox/new/jverkoey) on GitHub.

The rationale behind using a separate repository is that this week has the potential to shake up
a lot of things in mainline. Once the week is over we'll be able to look back at the code people
merge and decide whether to add more committers to the facebook/Three20 repo. Think of this
week as a trial for opening up the doors to more Three20 mainline contributors.

Throughout the week there will be people hanging out in the Three20 IRC channel.

    irc.freenode.net
    #Three20

If you have any questions that aren't being answered in the IRC channel, send an email to the
mailing list at three20@googlegroups.com.

Processes
---------

Here are a few guides to help you be as productive as possible during bug week.

### Process for Fixing a Bug {#FixABug}

1. Open the Google Spreadsheet "[Three20 v1.0a1 Task List](https://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=0Ap-fk9EFS1C6dEgzZUo1SnNvdTBkeDRvZnYxa1ZNMWc&hl=en)".
2. Find an issue that isn't owned by someone already.
3. Add your username to the "Owner" field in the spreadsheet.
4. Set the "Status" field in the spreadsheet. This can be anything, but should be used to
   indicate to others what your progress is. The cell will change color for the following
   words: "Testing" "Reviewing" "Committed".
5. Verify that you can reproduce the bug on the [v1.0](/roadmap/v1.0) branch. Don't just use
   [v1.0a1](/roadmap/v1.0a1) to test bugs because you'll need to eventually push the code to
   the v1.0 branch.
6. Create a new local branch, titled `issue_<issue number>`.
7. Fix the bug on this new local branch. Please follow the {{2010-10-24-Three20-Style-Guide}} when
   writing new code.
8. Verify that your fix does, in fact, fix the bug.
9. Commit your fix. Some fixes may require multiple commits, don't be afraid to do this!
   In the final commit for your fix, start the first line with the following:
   `Closes #<issue number>`. This will make GitHub close the relevant issue and automatically
    link back to the commit.
10. Push your `issue_<issue number>` branch to Three20/Three20. [Learn How](#PushToThree20).
11. Ask somebody else from the volunteer list to review your changes. If you can't find
    anyone on the volunteer list to help, send an email to the mailing list at
    three20@googlegroups.com.
12. Once your change has been reviewed, merge it into the [v1.0](/roadmap/v1.0) branch.
13. Congratulations! Thanks for helping squash bugs in Three20! Crack a beer, you've earned it.

### Process for Pushing to Three20 {#PushToThree20}

1. If you already have Three20 checked out on your local machine, run    
  `git remote add three20-bugweek git@github.com:Three20/Three20.git`.    
   If you don't have Three20 checked out, run    
   `git clone git@github.com:Three20/Three20.git`.    
   You will need commit access in order to push to Three20. Request it by
   [sending a message to jverkoey](https://github.com/inbox/new/jverkoey).
2. Check out [v1.0](/roadmap/v1.0). `git checkout v1.0`
3. Make a new branch. `git checkout -b issue_<issue number>`
3. Make your changes.
4. Commit messages should be of the form:    
   `[<module names affected>] <short title>`    
   `<empty line>`    
   `<message body>`
5. Push your branch. `git push three20-bugweek issue_<issue number>`
